Rewrite some sections of the website to make it more comprehensive (#144)
TypeScriptToLua/TypeScriptToLua.github.io: docs/publishing-modules.md

title: Publishing Modules
---

There are three kinds of `tstl` libraries published on npm:

- **Type declaration libraries** - Provides only _ambient_ types. In other words, these libraries do not contain any code which can be executed.

> - **Lua libraries** - Provides Lua code that can be imported and executed by `tstl` projects.

Reviewer: Lua libraries on npm will most likely be published by/for tstl, so they should always declarations. I would not mention this specific weird case here, there are only two cases: Type declaration libraries, or Lua libraries including .d.ts files.

- **Mixed** - Provides **both** type declarations and Lua code at the same time. (These kinds of libraries are less common.)

This page describes how to create a Lua package and publish it to npm.

## Basic Limitations

> - You cannot import `.ts` and `.tsx` source files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Tstl cannot import `.ts` and `.tsx` source files from a node_modules library.
```

> - You cannot use `"luaBundle"` in packages intended to be included as dependency in another project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Tstl npm packages can not be bundled with `"luaBundle"`, the requiring project decides to bundle or not.
```

}
```

Your `package.json` file should include the following fields:

```json title=package.json
{
  "name": "foo",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "A description of your package.",
  "keywords": ["typescript-to-lua", "lua", "tstl"],
  "homepage": "https://github.com/AUTHOR_NAME/PROJECT_NAME",
  "bugs": {
    "url": "https://github.com/AUTHOR_NAME/PROJECT_NAME/issues"
  },
  "repository": {
    "type": "git",
    "url": "git+https://github.com/AUTHOR_NAME/PROJECT_NAME.git"
  },

>   "license": "MIT",

Reviewer: Either remove this or add a comment stating this license should be replaced with whatever the package author wants. We do not want to force anyone to use MIT

  "author": "AUTHOR_NAME",

>   "files": ["dist", "LICENSE", "package.json", "README.md"],

Reviewer: Please put this back to what it was before, like you mention below most of these files are included in the package by default, and you are now hiding the content of dist which is the most important part

  "license": "MIT",
  "author": "AUTHOR_NAME",
  "files": ["dist", "LICENSE", "package.json", "README.md"],
  // Only specify "types" if your library is a type declaration library.
  "types": "./dist/index.d.ts",
  // Only specify "main" if your library is a Lua library.
  // (Do NOT include the file extension here, or things will not work properly.)
  "main": "./dist/index"
}
```

These must be **relative** paths within your module **without** the file's extension.

> These are set to `"index"` by default so if you _really_ don't want to specify these you can keep an `index.d.ts` and `index.lua` file at the top level of your package.
(Change `AUTHOR_NAME`, `PROJECT_NAME`, and the license accordingly.)

## Publishing

Within your `package.json` you can specify the `files` field to mark what files to publish.
The `files` field in the `package.json` file dictates which specific files will be uploaded to npm.

This is useful if you don't want to publish your source code.

```json title=package.json
{
  "files": [
    "dist/**/*.lua", // publish all Lua files in /dist/
    "dist/**/*.d.ts" // publish all declaration files in /dist/
  ]
}

> ```

Reviewer: Please add this back, this is the most important part of this entire page.
